docs/tutorials/widgy-mezzanine-tutorial.rst, before:

Quickstart
==========

This quickstart assumes you wish to use the following packages:

-  Widgy Mezzanine
-  Page Builder
-  Form Builder


Install the Widgy package::

    cd widgy
    pip install -e .

Add Mezzanine apps to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

        'mezzanine.boot',
        'mezzanine.conf',
        'mezzanine.core',
        'mezzanine.generic',
        'mezzanine.pages',
        'django.contrib.comments',
        'django.contrib.sites',
        'filebrowser_safe',
        'grappelli_safe',

add Widgy to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

        'widgy',
        'widgy.contrib.page_builder',
        'widgy.contrib.form_builder',
        'widgy.contrib.widgy_mezzanine',

add required Widgy apps to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

        'filer',
        'easy_thumbnails',
        'compressor',
        'argonauts',
        'scss',
        'sorl.thumbnail',
        'south',


``django.contrib.admin`` should be installed after Mezzanine and Widgy,
so move it under them in ``INSTALLED_APPS``.

add Mezzanine middleware::

        'mezzanine.core.request.CurrentRequestMiddleware',
        'mezzanine.core.middleware.AdminLoginInterfaceSelectorMiddleware',
        'mezzanine.pages.middleware.PageMiddleware',

Mezzanine settings::

    PACKAGE_NAME_FILEBROWSER = "filebrowser_safe"
    PACKAGE_NAME_GRAPPELLI = "grappelli_safe"
    ADMIN_MEDIA_PREFIX = STATIC_URL + "grappelli/"
    TESTING = False
    GRAPPELLI_INSTALLED = True
    SITE_ID = 1

If you want mezzanine to use
:class:`~widgy.contrib.widgy_mezzanine.models.WidgyPage` as the default page,
you can add the following line to your settings file::

    ADD_PAGE_ORDER = (
        'widgy_mezzanine.WidgyPage',
    )

add Mezzanine's context processors. If you don't already have
``TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS`` in your settings file, you should copy the
default before add Mezzanine's::

    TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS = (
        "django.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth",
        "django.contrib.messages.context_processors.messages",
        "django.core.context_processors.debug",
        "django.core.context_processors.i18n",
        "django.core.context_processors.static",
        "django.core.context_processors.media",
        "django.core.context_processors.request",
        "mezzanine.conf.context_processors.settings",
        "mezzanine.pages.context_processors.page",
    )

make a :class:`Widgy site <widgy.site.WidgySite>` and set it in settings::

    # demo/widgy_site.py
    from widgy.site import WidgySite

    class WidgySite(WidgySite):
        pass

    site = WidgySite()

    # settings.py
    WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE = 'demo.widgy_site.site'

Configure django-compressor::

    STATICFILES_FINDERS = (
        'compressor.finders.CompressorFinder',
        'django.contrib.staticfiles.finders.FileSystemFinder',
        'django.contrib.staticfiles.finders.AppDirectoriesFinder',
    )

    COMPRESS_ENABLED = True

    COMPRESS_PRECOMPILERS = (
        ('text/x-scss', 'django_pyscss.compressor.DjangoScssFilter'),
    )

.. note::

    Widgy requires that django-compressor be configured with a precompiler
    for ``text/x-scss``.  Widgy uses the django-pyscss_ package for easily
    integrating the pyScss_ library with Django.

.. note::

    With easy_thumbnails version 2.0+, an additional setting is required::

    SOUTH_MIGRATION_MODULES = {
        'easy_thumbnails': 'easy_thumbnails.south_migrations',
    }

syncdb; migrate

add urls::

    from django.conf.urls import patterns, include, url
    from demo.widgy_site import site as widgy_site

    urlpatterns = patterns('',
        # ...
        # widgy admin
        url(r'^admin/widgy/', include(widgy_site.urls)),
        # widgy frontend
        url(r'^widgy/', include('widgy.contrib.widgy_mezzanine.urls')),
        url(r'^', include('mezzanine.urls')),
    )


Make sure you have a url pattern named ``home`` or the admin templates
will not work right.

If you are using ``GenericTemplateFinderMiddleware``, use the one from
``fusionbox.mezzanine.middleware``. It has been patched to
work with Mezzanine.

How to edit home page
---------------------

1. Add the homepage to your urls.py::

       url(r'^$', 'mezzanine.pages.views.page', {'slug': '/'}, name='home'),

   **Note:** it must be a named URL, with the name 'home'

2. Make a page with the slug ``/`` and publish it.

3. Make a template called ``pages/index.html`` and put::

       {% extends "pages/widgypage.html" %}

   **Note:** If you don't do this you will likely get the following
   error::

       AttributeError: 'Settings' object has no attribute 'FORMS_EXTRA_FIELDS'

   This is caused by Mezzanine falling back its own template
   ``pages/index.html`` which tries to provide the inline editing feature,
   which requires ``mezzanine.forms`` to be installed.

Admin center
------------

A nice ``ADMIN_MENU_ORDER``::

    ADMIN_MENU_ORDER = [
        ('Widgy', (
            'pages.Page',
            'page_builder.Callout',
            'form_builder.Form',
            ('Review queue', 'review_queue.ReviewedVersionCommit'),
            ('File manager', 'filer.Folder'),
        )),
    ]

urlconf include
---------------

``urlconf_include`` is an optional application that allows you to install
urlpatterns in the Mezzanine page tree. To use it, put it in
``INSTALLED_APPS``,::

        'widgy.contrib.urlconf_include',

then add ``urlconf_include`` middleware,::

        'widgy.contrib.urlconf_include.middleware.PatchUrlconfMiddleware',

then set ``URLCONF_INCLUDE_CHOICES`` to a list of allowed urlpatterns. For example::

    URLCONF_INCLUDE_CHOICES = (
        ('blog.urls', 'Blog'),
    )


.. _django-pyscss: https://github.com/fusionbox/django-pyscss
.. _pyScss: https://github.com/Kronuz/pyScss

Adding Widgy to Mezzanine
-------------------------
If you are adding widgy to an existing mezzanine site, there are
some additional considerations.

If you have existing mezzanine RichTextPages, you will need
to reregister it. Simply create an admin.py file in your directory
and add this code::

    from django.contrib import admin

    from mezzanine.pages.admin import PageAdmin
    from mezzanine.pages.models import RichTextPage

    admin.site.register(RichTextPage, PageAdmin)

If you have not done so already, add the root directory of your mezzanine
install to INSTALLED_APPS.

Also, take care when setting the WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE variable in your
settings.py file. Because mezzanine is using an old Django directory structure,
it uses your root directory as your project file::

    # Use:
    WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE = 'myproject.demo.widgy_site.site'
    # Not:
    WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE = 'demo.widgy_site.site'

Commit message:

Use django-libsass instead of django-pyScss
Django-libsass supports Python 3.

docs/tutorials/widgy-mezzanine-tutorial.rst, after:

Quickstart
==========

This quickstart assumes you wish to use the following packages:

-  Widgy Mezzanine
-  Page Builder
-  Form Builder


Install the Widgy package::

    cd widgy
    pip install -e .

Add Mezzanine apps to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

        'mezzanine.boot',
        'mezzanine.conf',
        'mezzanine.core',
        'mezzanine.generic',
        'mezzanine.pages',
        'django.contrib.comments',
        'django.contrib.sites',
        'filebrowser_safe',
        'grappelli_safe',

add Widgy to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

        'widgy',
        'widgy.contrib.page_builder',
        'widgy.contrib.form_builder',
        'widgy.contrib.widgy_mezzanine',

add required Widgy apps to ``INSTALLED_APPS``::

        'filer',
        'easy_thumbnails',
        'compressor',
        'argonauts',
        'sorl.thumbnail',
        'south',


``django.contrib.admin`` should be installed after Mezzanine and Widgy,
so move it under them in ``INSTALLED_APPS``.

add Mezzanine middleware::

        'mezzanine.core.request.CurrentRequestMiddleware',
        'mezzanine.core.middleware.AdminLoginInterfaceSelectorMiddleware',
        'mezzanine.pages.middleware.PageMiddleware',

Mezzanine settings::

    PACKAGE_NAME_FILEBROWSER = "filebrowser_safe"
    PACKAGE_NAME_GRAPPELLI = "grappelli_safe"
    ADMIN_MEDIA_PREFIX = STATIC_URL + "grappelli/"
    TESTING = False
    GRAPPELLI_INSTALLED = True
    SITE_ID = 1

If you want mezzanine to use
:class:`~widgy.contrib.widgy_mezzanine.models.WidgyPage` as the default page,
you can add the following line to your settings file::

    ADD_PAGE_ORDER = (
        'widgy_mezzanine.WidgyPage',
    )

add Mezzanine's context processors. If you don't already have
``TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS`` in your settings file, you should copy the
default before add Mezzanine's::

    TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS = (
        "django.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth",
        "django.contrib.messages.context_processors.messages",
        "django.core.context_processors.debug",
        "django.core.context_processors.i18n",
        "django.core.context_processors.static",
        "django.core.context_processors.media",
        "django.core.context_processors.request",
        "mezzanine.conf.context_processors.settings",
        "mezzanine.pages.context_processors.page",
    )

make a :class:`Widgy site <widgy.site.WidgySite>` and set it in settings::

    # demo/widgy_site.py
    from widgy.site import WidgySite

    class WidgySite(WidgySite):
        pass

    site = WidgySite()

    # settings.py
    WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE = 'demo.widgy_site.site'

Configure django-compressor::

    STATICFILES_FINDERS = (
        'compressor.finders.CompressorFinder',
        'django.contrib.staticfiles.finders.FileSystemFinder',
        'django.contrib.staticfiles.finders.AppDirectoriesFinder',
    )

    COMPRESS_ENABLED = True

    COMPRESS_PRECOMPILERS = (
        ('text/x-scss', 'django_libsass.SassCompiler'),
    )

.. note::

    Widgy requires that django-compressor be configured with a precompiler
    for ``text/x-scss``.  Widgy uses the django-libsass_ package for easily
    integrating the libsass_ library with Django.

.. note::

    With easy_thumbnails version 2.0+, an additional setting is required::

    SOUTH_MIGRATION_MODULES = {
        'easy_thumbnails': 'easy_thumbnails.south_migrations',
    }

syncdb; migrate

add urls::

    from django.conf.urls import patterns, include, url
    from demo.widgy_site import site as widgy_site

    urlpatterns = patterns('',
        # ...
        # widgy admin
        url(r'^admin/widgy/', include(widgy_site.urls)),
        # widgy frontend
        url(r'^widgy/', include('widgy.contrib.widgy_mezzanine.urls')),
        url(r'^', include('mezzanine.urls')),
    )


Make sure you have a url pattern named ``home`` or the admin templates
will not work right.

If you are using ``GenericTemplateFinderMiddleware``, use the one from
``fusionbox.mezzanine.middleware``. It has been patched to
work with Mezzanine.

How to edit home page
---------------------

1. Add the homepage to your urls.py::

       url(r'^$', 'mezzanine.pages.views.page', {'slug': '/'}, name='home'),

   **Note:** it must be a named URL, with the name 'home'

2. Make a page with the slug ``/`` and publish it.

3. Make a template called ``pages/index.html`` and put::

       {% extends "pages/widgypage.html" %}

   **Note:** If you don't do this you will likely get the following
   error::

       AttributeError: 'Settings' object has no attribute 'FORMS_EXTRA_FIELDS'

   This is caused by Mezzanine falling back its own template
   ``pages/index.html`` which tries to provide the inline editing feature,
   which requires ``mezzanine.forms`` to be installed.

Admin center
------------

A nice ``ADMIN_MENU_ORDER``::

    ADMIN_MENU_ORDER = [
        ('Widgy', (
            'pages.Page',
            'page_builder.Callout',
            'form_builder.Form',
            ('Review queue', 'review_queue.ReviewedVersionCommit'),
            ('File manager', 'filer.Folder'),
        )),
    ]

urlconf include
---------------

``urlconf_include`` is an optional application that allows you to install
urlpatterns in the Mezzanine page tree. To use it, put it in
``INSTALLED_APPS``,::

        'widgy.contrib.urlconf_include',

then add ``urlconf_include`` middleware,::

        'widgy.contrib.urlconf_include.middleware.PatchUrlconfMiddleware',

then set ``URLCONF_INCLUDE_CHOICES`` to a list of allowed urlpatterns. For example::

    URLCONF_INCLUDE_CHOICES = (
        ('blog.urls', 'Blog'),
    )


.. _django-libsass: https://github.com/torchbox/django-libsass
.. _libsass: https://github.com/dahlia/libsass-python

Adding Widgy to Mezzanine
-------------------------
If you are adding widgy to an existing mezzanine site, there are
some additional considerations.

If you have existing mezzanine RichTextPages, you will need
to reregister it. Simply create an admin.py file in your directory
and add this code::

    from django.contrib import admin

    from mezzanine.pages.admin import PageAdmin
    from mezzanine.pages.models import RichTextPage

    admin.site.register(RichTextPage, PageAdmin)

If you have not done so already, add the root directory of your mezzanine
install to INSTALLED_APPS.

Also, take care when setting the WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE variable in your
settings.py file. Because mezzanine is using an old Django directory structure,
it uses your root directory as your project file::

    # Use:
    WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE = 'myproject.demo.widgy_site.site'
    # Not:
    WIDGY_MEZZANINE_SITE = 'demo.widgy_site.site'
